# Static Vs. Dynamic

<p>In Unreal Engine 5, there are two primary approaches to lighting: static lighting and dynamic lighting. Here's a short description of the difference between the two:</p>
<p style="padding-left: 40px;"><strong>Static Lighting: </strong>Static lighting, also known as baked lighting, involves pre-calculating the lighting information and storing it in lightmaps or light probes. This approach is suitable for environments or objects that do not change during runtime. When using static lighting, the lighting is computed offline, usually during the build process, and the results are stored in textures that are then applied to the scene. Static lighting provides high-quality and accurate lighting, including realistic shadows and global illumination effects. However, it does not account for dynamic changes in the scene, such as moving objects or changing light sources.</p>
<p style="padding-left: 40px;"><strong>Dynamic Lighting: </strong>Dynamic lighting, as the name suggests, allows for real-time calculations of lighting during gameplay or scene editing. This approach is suitable for environments or objects that require dynamic changes in lighting, such as moving lights, dynamic objects, or changes in time of day. With dynamic lighting, the lighting calculations are performed in real time, allowing for interactive and dynamic lighting effects. However, dynamic lighting may come with some performance overhead, as the calculations need to be performed on the fly.</p>
<p style="padding-left: 40px;">Unreal Engine 5 provides a hybrid lighting system that combines the benefits of both static and dynamic lighting. <strong>This hybrid approach, called Lumen</strong>, allows for real-time dynamic lighting and global illumination while still providing high-quality precomputed indirect lighting effects. Lumen enables interactive and dynamic lighting changes without sacrificing visual fidelity.</p>
<p>Static lighting offers high-quality precomputed lighting that doesn't change during runtime, while dynamic lighting allows for real-time lighting calculations and is suitable for environments with dynamic lighting needs. Unreal Engine 5's Lumen system provides a hybrid approach that combines the best of both worlds, offering real-time dynamic lighting with global illumination effects.</p>